_pages/colophon.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: Colophon
date: '2021-11-08 10:27:27'
last_modified_at: '2021-11-08 10:27:31'
description: "Technical details about the website"
permalink: '/colophon/'
---
Developed by Simone Silvestroni, designed with Silvia Maggi. <abbr title="Information Architecture">IA</abbr> and photography by [Silvia Maggi](https://silviamaggidesign.com/ "Go to Silvia Maggi website"){:target="_blank" rel="noopener"}. Logo glyph by [Saskia Robertson](/about/).

## Tools

Developed from scratch using:

- [Jekyll 4](https://jekyllrb.com/)
- <abbr title="Syntactically Awesome Style Sheets">[SASS](https://sass-lang.com/)</abbr>
- [PostCSS](https://postcss.org/)
- [Bootstrap 5.1](https://getbootstrap.com/)
- [Node](https://nodejs.org/)
- [GitHub](https://github.com/)
- Javascript search module by [David Darnes](https://github.com/daviddarnes)
- Deployment: [![Netlify Status](https://api.netlify.com/api/v1/badges/d2941475-cc56-4e5c-98c9-e16845e6cbea/deploy-status)](https://app.netlify.com/sites/minutestomidnight/deploys)

## Performance

<div class="table-responsive">
  <table class="table">
    <thead>
      <tr class="table-dark">
        <th scope="col" class="align-top text-center fw-bold"><strong>Markup</strong></th>
        <th scope="col" class="align-top text-center fw-bold"><strong>Google score</strong></th>
        <th scope="col" class="align-top text-center fw-bold"><strong>Speed index</strong></th>
        <th scope="col" class="align-top text-center fw-bold"><strong>Page weight</strong></th>
      </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
      <tr>
        <td class="text-center fs-3">✅ <a href="https://validator.w3.org/nu/?doc=https%3A%2F%minutestomidnight.co.uk%2F" target="_blank" rel="noopener">valid</a></td>
        <td class="text-center fs-3"><a href="https://pagespeed.web.dev/report?url=https%3A%2F%2Fminutestomidnight.co.uk%2F" target="_blank" rel="noopener"><code>100</code></a></td>
        <td class="text-center fs-3 fw-bold"><code>0.4 sec</code></td>
        <td class="text-center fs-3"><code>166 kb</code></td>
      </tr>
    </tbody>
  </table>
</div>

## Accessibility

- ✅ **No errors** for 
<abbr title="Web Content Accessibility Guidelines">WCAG</abbr> detected on [WAVE](https://wave.webaim.org/report#/https://minutestomidnight.co.uk/){:target="_blank" rel="noopener"}.
- ✅ **`100`** on [Google Lighthouse](https://web.dev/measure/){:target="_blank"}

## Sustainability

Only `0.07g of CO2` is produced every time someone visits the homepage. Cleaner than `93%` of [web pages tested](https://www.websitecarbon.com/website/minutestomidnight-co-uk/ "Visit Website carbon"){:target="_blank" rel="noopener"}. The website is running on sustainable energy.

## Copyright

Unless explicitly stated, all contents of this website (copy, images, files, interface, branding and code) are copyright of Minutes to Midnight. If you wish to reshare or use my content, please attribute it to me.

## Trademark

Minutes to Midnight is a registered trademark. **Minutes to Midnight**&trade; logo, in all its variants, are use trademarks for the trading name of Simone Silvestroni.

Commit message:

New redesign blog post and adjustments to webmentions and colophon

_pages/colophon.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: Colophon
date: '2021-11-08 10:27:27'
last_modified_at: '2021-11-08 10:27:31'
description: "Technical details about the website"
permalink: '/colophon/'
---
Developed by Simone Silvestroni, designed with Silvia Maggi. <abbr title="Information Architecture">IA</abbr> and photography by [Silvia Maggi](https://silviamaggidesign.com/ "Go to Silvia Maggi website"){:target="_blank" rel="noopener"}. Logo glyph by [Saskia Robertson](/about/). Check the post [Website redesign](/blog/website-redesign/) for a more philosophical analysis.

## Tools

Developed from scratch using:

- [Jekyll 4](https://jekyllrb.com/)
- [Markdown (extended)](https://www.markdownguide.org/getting-started/)
- <abbr title="Syntactically Awesome Style Sheets">[SASS](https://sass-lang.com/)</abbr>
- [PostCSS](https://postcss.org/)
- [Bootstrap 5.1](https://getbootstrap.com/)
- [Node](https://nodejs.org/)
- [GitHub](https://github.com/)
- Javascript search module by [David Darnes](https://github.com/daviddarnes)
- Deployment: [![Netlify Status](https://api.netlify.com/api/v1/badges/d2941475-cc56-4e5c-98c9-e16845e6cbea/deploy-status)](https://app.netlify.com/sites/minutestomidnight/deploys)

## Performance

<div class="table-responsive">
  <table class="table">
    <thead>
      <tr class="table-dark">
        <th scope="col" class="align-top text-center fw-bold"><strong>Markup</strong></th>
        <th scope="col" class="align-top text-center fw-bold"><strong>Google score</strong></th>
        <th scope="col" class="align-top text-center fw-bold"><strong>Speed index</strong></th>
        <th scope="col" class="align-top text-center fw-bold"><strong>Page weight</strong></th>
      </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
      <tr>
        <td class="text-center fs-3">✅ <a href="https://validator.w3.org/nu/?doc=https%3A%2F%minutestomidnight.co.uk%2F" target="_blank" rel="noopener">valid</a></td>
        <td class="text-center fs-3"><a href="https://pagespeed.web.dev/report?url=https%3A%2F%2Fminutestomidnight.co.uk%2F" target="_blank" rel="noopener"><code>100</code></a></td>
        <td class="text-center fs-3 fw-bold"><code>0.4 sec</code></td>
        <td class="text-center fs-3"><code>166 kb</code></td>
      </tr>
    </tbody>
  </table>
</div>

## Accessibility

- ✅ **No errors** for 
<abbr title="Web Content Accessibility Guidelines">WCAG</abbr> detected on [WAVE](https://wave.webaim.org/report#/https://minutestomidnight.co.uk/){:target="_blank" rel="noopener"}.
- ✅ **`100`** on [Google Lighthouse](https://web.dev/measure/){:target="_blank"}

## Sustainability

Only `0.07g of CO2` is produced every time someone visits the homepage. Cleaner than `93%` of [web pages tested](https://www.websitecarbon.com/website/minutestomidnight-co-uk/ "Visit Website carbon"){:target="_blank" rel="noopener"}. The website is running on sustainable energy.

## Copyright

Unless explicitly stated, all contents of this website (copy, images, files, interface, branding and code) are copyright of Minutes to Midnight. If you wish to reshare or use my content, please attribute it to me.

## Trademark

Minutes to Midnight is a registered trademark. **Minutes to Midnight**&trade; logo, in all its variants, are use trademarks for the trading name of Simone Silvestroni.
