_pages/contact.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: Contact
date: '2021-11-08 10:31:25'
last_modified_at: '2021-11-08 10:31:29'
description: 'Interested in hiring me for your next project, or just want to connect? Find all the info, including (some) social media and my irregular newsletter.'
permalink: '/contact/'
---
## Hire me

I’m available for hire: [reach out via email](mailto:hello@minutestomidnight.co.uk){:rel="me"} and let me know what do you need help with. We’ll take it from there. 

If you need bass tracks or production, it's possible to hire me through [SoundBetter](https://soundbetter.com/profiles/206552-minutes-to-midnight), a safe and secure platform to hire freelance musicians.

## Get in touch

To start a direct conversation or ask for advice, I'm reachable on [Telegram](https://t.me/minutes2midnight). It&rsquo;s also possible to follow me on the following platforms:

<div class="d-flex justify-content-center my-5">{%- include navigation-social.html %}</div>

<div class="alert alert-background-d-10 px-4 py-4" role="alert">
  <p class="text-center"><mark class="m2m-highlight text-center fw-bold px-2"><strong>What about the usual social media?</strong></mark></p>
  <p class="detached">In the summer of 2020 <a href="/blog/escape-from-social-media/">I deleted</a> my Twitter, Reddit, Facebook, Instagram and WhatsApp.</p>
</div>

## Newsletter

I only send one when I actually have updates to share, mostly about **releases** or *facts* from the **audio, game and web industries**. You can reply directly and start a conversation: I always respond.

{% include pattern-newsletter-sub.html %}

## Subscribe to blog posts

To get to know when I post in the [blog](/blog/), subscribe to the [RSS feed](/feed.xml).

Commit message:

Updated copy to reflect new notes and feeds

_pages/contact.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: Contact
date: '2021-11-08 10:31:25'
last_modified_at: '2021-11-08 10:31:29'
description: 'Interested in hiring me for your next project, or just want to connect? Find all the info, including (some) social media and my irregular newsletter.'
permalink: '/contact/'
---
## Hire me

I’m available for hire: [reach out via email](mailto:hello@minutestomidnight.co.uk){:rel="me"} and let me know what do you need help with. We’ll take it from there. 

If you need bass tracks or production, it's possible to hire me through [SoundBetter](https://soundbetter.com/profiles/206552-minutes-to-midnight), a safe and secure platform to hire freelance musicians.

## Get in touch

To start a direct conversation or ask for advice, I'm reachable on [Telegram](https://t.me/minutes2midnight). It&rsquo;s also possible to follow me on the following platforms:

<div class="d-flex justify-content-center my-5">{%- include navigation-social.html %}</div>

<div class="alert alert-background-d-10 px-4 py-4" role="alert">
  <p class="text-center"><mark class="m2m-highlight text-center fw-bold px-2"><strong>What about the usual social media?</strong></mark></p>
  <p class="detached">In the summer of 2020 <a href="/blog/escape-from-social-media/">I deleted</a> my Twitter, Reddit, Facebook, Instagram and WhatsApp.</p>
</div>

## Newsletter

I only send one when I actually have updates to share, mostly about **releases** or *facts* from the **audio, game and web industries**. You can reply directly and start a conversation: I always respond.

{% include pattern-newsletter-sub.html %}

## Follow updates

To get to know when I post new [articles](/blog/) or [notes](/notes/), subscribe to the feeds:

- [**Blog** feed](/feed.xml)
- [**Notes** feed](/notes.xml)
- [**Telegram** updates channel](https://t.me/M2Mupdates)
