_pages/privacy-policy.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: Privacy policy
date: '2021-11-08 10:29:58'
last_modified_at: '2021-11-08 10:30:02'
description: "This is the privacy policy for Minutes to Midnight's website. I do not collect any personal data about visitors."
permalink: '/privacy-policy/'
---
<div class="alert alert-background-d-10 px-3 py-3 px-md-5 py-md-5">
	<p class="fs-2"><a href="{{ site.url }}">{{ site.url }}</a> is built with <a href="https://jekyllrb.com/" title="Jekyll website">Jekyll</a>, a static web generator.</p>
	<ul class="mb-0">
		<li class="fs-2">It doesn&rsquo;t collect personal data.</li>
		<li class="fs-2">It doesn&rsquo;t run analytics software.</li>
		<li class="fs-2">It doesn&rsquo;t have ads.</li>
		<li class="fs-2">It doesn&rsquo;t have affiliate links.</li>
		<li class="fs-2">No tracking.</li>
	</ul>
</div>

## Third parties

Content embedded from other websites, such as Bandcamp, Spotify, Soundcloud and YouTube, behave in the same way as if the visitor has visited them. They may collect data about you, use cookies, embed additional third-party tracking, and monitor your interaction with that content, including tracking your interaction with it if you have an account and are logged in to that website.

An exception to the above is **YouTube**: I set all the embeds to specifically come from `https://www.youtube-nocookie.com`.

## Security

The website adopts a secure <abbr title="Secure Sockets Layer">SSL</abbr> protocol and it’s hosted on [Netlify](https://www.netlify.com/ "Go to the Netlify website"){:target="_blank" rel="noopener"}.

## Newsletter

If you subscribe to my newsletter, I will collect your email address, which will be stored by Mailchimp. It will be used solely to send you occasinal emails. I do not share it with anyone. You can unsubscribe at any moment via the link in my newsletters. Learn more about [Mailchimp’s privacy practices](https://mailchimp.com/legal/ "Go to the Mailchimp website"){:target="_blank" rel="noopener"}.

## Contact information

If you have privacy-specific concerns, you can [get in touch](/contact/).

Commit message:

Added content security policy to privacy page

_pages/privacy-policy.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: Privacy policy
date: '2021-11-08 10:29:58'
last_modified_at: '2021-11-08 10:30:02'
description: "This is the privacy policy for Minutes to Midnight's website. I do not collect any personal data about visitors."
permalink: '/privacy-policy/'
---
<div class="alert alert-background-d-10 px-3 py-3 px-md-5 py-md-5">
	<p class="fs-2"><a href="{{ site.url }}">{{ site.url }}</a> is built with <a href="https://jekyllrb.com/" title="Jekyll website">Jekyll</a>, a static web generator.</p>
	<ul class="mb-0">
		<li class="fs-2">It doesn&rsquo;t collect personal data.</li>
		<li class="fs-2">It doesn&rsquo;t run analytics software.</li>
		<li class="fs-2">It doesn&rsquo;t have ads.</li>
		<li class="fs-2">It doesn&rsquo;t have affiliate links.</li>
		<li class="fs-2">No tracking.</li>
	</ul>
</div>

## Third parties

All videos from **YouTube** come from `https://www.youtube-nocookie.com`. Content embedded from other websites, such as **Bandcamp**, **Spotify** and **Soundcloud** behave as if the visitor has visited them. They may try to collect data about you, use cookies, embed additional third-party tracking, and monitor your interaction with that content, although my [content security policy should block them](#security).

## Security

The website adopts a secure <abbr title="Secure Sockets Layer">SSL</abbr> protocol and a [content security policy](https://securityheaders.com/?q=minutestomidnight.co.uk&followRedirects=on) is fully implemented.

## Newsletter

If you subscribe to my newsletter, I will collect your email address, which will be stored by Mailchimp. It will be used solely to send you occasinal emails. I do not share it with anyone. You can unsubscribe at any moment via the link in my newsletters. Learn more about [Mailchimp’s privacy practices](https://mailchimp.com/legal/ "Go to the Mailchimp website"){:target="_blank" rel="noopener"}.

## Contact information

If you have privacy-specific concerns, you can [get in touch](/contact/).
