_originalmusicproductions/the-die-is-cast.md, before:

---
title: 'The Die Is Cast'
date: '2021-06-03 10:50:53'
last_modified_at: '2021-11-08 10:50:56'
year: "2021"
type: "EP"
skillset:
  - "composition"
  - "arrangement"
  - "instrument"
  - "production"
  - "mix"
  - "reaper"
description: "My upcoming 5-songs album is an autobiographical rumination about migration in Europe in a time of populism. It’s going to be made of two remixes plus three original songs."
excerpt: 'My <strong>upcoming 5-songs album</strong> is an autobiographical rumination about migration in Europe in a time of populism. It’s going to be made of two remixes plus three originals.'
toc: true
featimage: true
permalink: '/work/original-music-productions/the-die-is-cast/'
---
## Release

{% include pattern-bandcamp.html iframecode='<iframe style="border: 0; width: 360px; height: 535px;" src="https://bandcamp.com/EmbeddedPlayer/album=367059768/size=large/bgcol=ffffff/linkcol=333333/transparent=true/" seamless><a href="https://music.minutestomidnight.co.uk/album/the-die-is-cast-ep-preview">The Die Is Cast (EP preview) by Minutes to Midnight + Antiquity</a></iframe>' %}

## Backstory

In 2018, together with Dan Ecclestone, songwriter for Cambridge-based band Ember Rev, I worked as a co-producer and mixer for their second album, [*Premonition And Ruin*](/work/sound-design/premonition-and-ruin/). A song that I really liked didn’t make the final cut, a piece divided in two short parts, which bookended the album. *Land Of Kings* is my interpretation of it. *Papillon*, the fourth song, is my absolute favorite of their entire catalog.

Both lyrics referenced the painful process of living in England through Brexit. *The Die Is Cast* is in fact an autobiographical **concept revolving around migration** in Europe, and how deceitful can be to idealize the place where you move to.

I had been living in the UK for five years when Brexit happened. What was going on was the exact opposite of what I loved about my adopted country. I remember the night of the referendum: I was up in front of the TV, watching my idea of the UK — England in particular — **crumble before my eyes**.

{% include pattern-video.html id="SAn9Dw_srPA" %}

At five in the morning, right after **the BBC declared the result**, I stood alone in the garden. It was sunny, a good fresh smell in the air. Gobsmacked and incapable of thinking clearly, I felt like when a partner leaves without an explanation, betraying all their principles in the meanwhile.

Then, the most pantomimic four years came and went, and all I could see is ‘Rule Britannia’, which looked so out of touch with the world at large. [My wife and I left the UK](/blog/back-to-the-future-leaving-the-uk/), and our good friends there, last September. I haven’t yet come to terms with the seismic change.

These two songs, even if written by someone else, prefectly encapsulate those days in June 2016. I spoke with [Gerald Duchene](https://antiquity-music.com/), long-time collaborator and friend of mine, about the idea of working together at these remixes. We both love a challenge, so off we went.

> When I first heard the original recordings of these songs, I knew there was something there. Simone and I were pretty much simpatico and on the same page right from the start of our work on these tunes. We’ve been working together for awhile now and it seems like we have comfortably fallen into this new sound. I’m very proud of the work we did on these two great songs by Dan. I think they are the products of careful thoughtful musicianship.
> 
> <cite>&mdash; Gerald Duchene</cite>

## Production notes

_Papillon_ started with Gerald. He sent the full **Logic Pro X project**, which featured a few instruments I didn't anticipate. The flugelhorn in particular caught me off-guard: it fit the sound so well that when I produced _Land of Kings_ I specifically asked Gerald to write another solo with it.

I produced both songs using REAPER, as I had [recently switched from Pro Tools](/blog/daw-from-logic-to-pro-tools-to-reaper-part-1/). With _Papillon_ I worked intensively for a full day, adding the **fretless bass**, editing the drums and enhancing the rhythm with some drum doubling and a new groove using a custom patch on REAPER, where I summed my trusted **XLN Addictive Drums** to **Steven Slate Drums 5**. I wrote a piano theme, refactored all the vocals effect following the same reverb I did use in the original version, and optimized all Gerald's parts.

For _Land of Kings_ I started with the **Warwick** bass. I replaced all the original harmonium parts with a few synths, one of which is **Logic's Alchemy**, and used the bass to build a delay-driven arpeggio who pretty much served as a leading melody. For both songs, I employed my REAPER presets — which replicate the same patches I've had for years in Logic and then Pro Tools — including **send effects** (verbs, delays) and my interpretation of Michael Brauer's **multi-bus compression**.

### Vocals

I treated all the vocal tracks with my go-to set of multiple tracks running **parallel compression**. LA-2A, a Vari-Mu (I'm currently using a premium Klanghelm plugin), an 1176 and a Fairchild.

### Sound effects

A couple of samples, a classic in my original productions, completed the remixes. _Land Of Kings_ features the exact TV announcement that I witnessed at sunup on the day of the referendum (see video above). _Papillon_ references a well-known section of the [maiden speech by Jo Cox](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=u3OQRnJ1zrQ){:target="_blank" rel="noopener"} — murdered by a far-right extremist a few days before the referendum — at the House of Commons.

## Credits

### Land Of Kings

**Dan Ecclestone** / Vocals  
**Romy Gensale** / Background vocals  
**Gerald Duchene** / Flugel horn, synth vocals  
**Simone Silvestroni** / Bass, synth, drums, sound effects  

### Papillon

**Dan Ecclestone** / Vocals, mellotron, distorted guitar  
**Gerald Duchene** / Flugel horn, trumpet, guitars, synth, percussion  
**Simone Silvestroni** / Fretless bass, piano, synth, drums, sound effects  
<br>
—  
Recorded between the UK, Italy and the United States.  
_Papillon_ produced by Simone Silvestroni and Gerald Duchene.  
_Land Of Kings_ produced by Simone Silvestroni.  
Mixed and mastered by Simone Silvestroni.

<p class="detached"><mark class="m2m-highlight small">EP preview released <strong>June 3, 2021</strong>.</mark></p>

<p class="detached small">
  <sup>&copy;</sup> 2018 Music and lyrics Dan Ecclestone.<br>
  <sup>&copy;</sup> 2021 Remix produced and arranged by Simone Silvestroni and Gerald Duchene.<br>
  &copysr; 2021 The copyright in this sound recording is owned by Minutes to Midnight and Gerald Duchene. Minutes to Midnight is the exclusive trademark of Simone Silvestroni. All trademarks and logos are protected.
</p>

Commit message:

Cut copy from original music case studies

_originalmusicproductions/the-die-is-cast.md, after:

---
title: 'The Die Is Cast'
date: '2021-06-03 10:50:53'
last_modified_at: '2021-11-08 10:50:56'
year: "2021"
type: "EP"
skillset:
  - "composition"
  - "arrangement"
  - "instrument"
  - "production"
  - "mix"
  - "reaper"
description: "My upcoming 5-songs album is an autobiographical rumination about migration in Europe in a time of populism. This EP is an appetizer."
excerpt: 'My <strong>upcoming 5-songs album</strong> is an autobiographical rumination about migration in Europe in a time of populism. This EP is an appetizer.'
toc: true
featimage: true
permalink: '/work/original-music-productions/the-die-is-cast/'
---
## Release

{% include pattern-bandcamp.html iframecode='<iframe style="border: 0; width: 360px; height: 535px;" src="https://bandcamp.com/EmbeddedPlayer/album=367059768/size=large/bgcol=ffffff/linkcol=333333/transparent=true/" seamless><a href="https://music.minutestomidnight.co.uk/album/the-die-is-cast-ep-preview">The Die Is Cast (EP preview) by Minutes to Midnight + Antiquity</a></iframe>' %}

## Backstory

In 2018, together with Dan Ecclestone, songwriter for Cambridge-based band Ember Rev, I worked as a co-producer and mixer for their second album, [*Premonition And Ruin*](/work/sound-design/premonition-and-ruin/). A song didn’t make the cut: *Land Of Kings* is my interpretation of it. Together with *Papillon*, they reference the painful process of living in England through Brexit.

I had been living in the UK for five years when the referendum took place. That night I was up in front of the TV, watching my idea of the UK — England in particular — **crumble before my eyes**.

{% include pattern-video.html id="SAn9Dw_srPA" %}

At five in the morning, right after **the BBC declared the result**, I stood alone in the garden. It was sunny, a good fresh smell in the air. Gobsmacked and incapable of thinking clearly, I felt betrayed.

Then, the most pantomimic four years came and went, and all I could see is ‘Rule Britannia’, which looked so out of touch with the world at large. [My wife and I left the UK](/blog/back-to-the-future-leaving-the-uk/), and our good friends there, last September. I haven’t yet come to terms with the seismic change.

These two songs, even if written by someone else, prefectly encapsulate those days in June 2016. I spoke with [Gerald Duchene](https://antiquity-music.com/), long-time collaborator and friend of mine, about the idea of working together at these remixes. We both love a challenge, so off we went.

> When I first heard the original recordings of these songs, I knew there was something there. Simone and I were pretty much simpatico and on the same page right from the start of our work on these tunes. We’ve been working together for awhile now and it seems like we have comfortably fallen into this new sound. I’m very proud of the work we did on these two great songs by Dan. I think they are the products of careful thoughtful musicianship.
> 
> <cite>&mdash; Gerald Duchene</cite>

## Production notes

_Papillon_ started with Gerald. He sent the full **Logic Pro X project**, which featured a few instruments I didn't anticipate. The flugelhorn in particular caught me off-guard: it fit the sound so well that when I produced _Land of Kings_ I specifically asked Gerald to write another solo with it.

I produced both songs using REAPER, as I had [recently switched from Pro Tools](/blog/daw-from-logic-to-pro-tools-to-reaper-part-1/). With _Papillon_ I worked intensively for a full day, adding the **fretless bass**, editing the drums and enhancing the rhythm with some drum doubling and a new groove using a custom patch on REAPER, where I summed my trusted **XLN Addictive Drums** to **Steven Slate Drums 5**. I wrote a piano theme, refactored all the vocals effect following the same reverb I did use in the original version, and optimized all Gerald's parts.

For _Land of Kings_ I started with the **Warwick** bass. I replaced all the original harmonium parts with a few synths, one of which is **Logic's Alchemy**, and used the bass to build a delay-driven arpeggio who pretty much served as a leading melody. For both songs, I employed my REAPER presets — which replicate the same patches I've had for years in Logic and then Pro Tools — including **send effects** (verbs, delays) and my interpretation of Michael Brauer's **multi-bus compression**.

### Vocals

I treated all the vocal tracks with my go-to set of multiple tracks running **parallel compression**. LA-2A, a Vari-Mu (I'm currently using a premium Klanghelm plugin), an 1176 and a Fairchild.

### Sound effects

A couple of samples, a classic in my original productions, completed the remixes. _Land Of Kings_ features the exact TV announcement that I witnessed at sunup on the day of the referendum (see video above). _Papillon_ references a well-known section of the [maiden speech by Jo Cox](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=u3OQRnJ1zrQ){:target="_blank" rel="noopener"} — murdered by a far-right extremist a few days before the referendum — at the House of Commons.

## Credits

### Land Of Kings

**Dan Ecclestone** / Vocals  
**Romy Gensale** / Background vocals  
**Gerald Duchene** / Flugel horn, synth vocals  
**Simone Silvestroni** / Bass, synth, drums, sound effects  

### Papillon

**Dan Ecclestone** / Vocals, mellotron, distorted guitar  
**Gerald Duchene** / Flugel horn, trumpet, guitars, synth, percussion  
**Simone Silvestroni** / Fretless bass, piano, synth, drums, sound effects  
<br>
—  
Recorded between the UK, Italy and the United States.  
_Papillon_ produced by Simone Silvestroni and Gerald Duchene.  
_Land Of Kings_ produced by Simone Silvestroni.  
Mixed and mastered by Simone Silvestroni.

<p class="detached"><mark class="m2m-highlight small">EP preview released <strong>June 3, 2021</strong>.</mark></p>

<p class="detached small">
  <sup>&copy;</sup> 2018 Music and lyrics Dan Ecclestone.<br>
  <sup>&copy;</sup> 2021 Remix produced and arranged by Simone Silvestroni and Gerald Duchene.<br>
  &copysr; 2021 The copyright in this sound recording is owned by Minutes to Midnight and Gerald Duchene. Minutes to Midnight is the exclusive trademark of Simone Silvestroni. All trademarks and logos are protected.
</p>
