---
title: 'Release: ‘After 1989’'
date: '2019-11-09 10:51:42'
last_modified_at: '2022-08-12 15:46:08'
tags: 
  - 'bandcamp'
  - 'bass'
  - 'composition'
  - 'history'
  - 'indie artist'
  - 'featured'
  - 'germany'
  - 'mix'
  - 'master'
  - 'music production'
  - 'music release'
  - 'original music'
  - 'personal'
  - 'uk'
  - 'sound project'
  - 'world war ii'
description: "A concept album about my grandfather, who escaped Germany in 1945, while I made the other way round, looking for answers."
featimage: true
featimage-name: 'after-1989.jpg'
featimage-alt: Cover for the album ‘After 1989’
featimage-width: 720
featimage-height: 720
---
{% include pattern-bandcamp.html size="bc-album" iframecode='<iframe style="border: 0; width: 100%; height: 472px;" src="https://bandcamp.com/EmbeddedPlayer/album=4002304498/size=large/bgcol=ffffff/linkcol=333333/artwork=small/transparent=true/"><a href="https://minutestomidnight.bandcamp.com/album/after-1989-a-trip-to-freedom">After 1989: A Trip To Freedom by Minutes to Midnight</a></iframe>' %}

_After 1989_ can be [downloaded in high-resolution and/or streamed on Bandcamp](https://minutestomidnight.bandcamp.com/album/after-1989-a-trip-to-freedom). It features a PDF booklet containing synopsis and lyrics (in English and Italian) along with a beautiful [limited edition CD](https://minutestomidnight.bandcamp.com/album/after-1989-a-trip-to-freedom).

## The concept

Three decades after the fall of the Berlin Wall, the autobiographical tale of how my grandfather escaped a concentration camp in 1945, while I made the other way round, looking for answers that I could only find in 2017.

Summer, mid-eighties. During a family dinner, after a glass too many, my grandfather let a story slip from his past. He told us how fascists captured and sent him to Germany, where he spent four years in Sachsenhausen concentration camp, on the outskirts of Berlin. The Nazis spared his life because of his craftsmanship as a shoemaker. In April 1945, a few days before the Allies stormed into the city, he managed to escape with a fellow Russian inmate. They crossed Europe and came back home.

I grew up during the Cold War, obsessed by a shared feeling of impending doom. My very first trip was to Prague and Berlin, a few months after the collapse of the Wall. I watched a divided city as it still was, but didn’t dare to visit the camp. Many years later, I was able to put my resolve to the test.

Present day. Once again, I’m back in Berlin, this time to finally see the Konzentrationslager. I’m on the S-Bahn train to Oranienburg. At each station, my mind goes back in time, to the tumultuous decades that preceded the 9th of November 1989, when people were able to cross the Wall. I’m thinking about the connection between my grandfather’s story and the convoluted menacing world order that came out of it.

When I finally cross the steel gate of Sachsenhausen, I realise how this whole story is about being a prisoner. Whether in a concentration camp, behind a wall, caught within propaganda or fearing a nuclear holocaust.

{: .cta }
[**Read the full story**&nbsp;&rarr;]({{ site.url }}/blog/after-1989-full-story/){: .notice-cta }

### Music videos playlist

- [Watch the video playlist on **Invidious**](https://yewtu.be/playlist?list=PLR26aYJQa09PleTolHJU9AXACUHWsdu6s)
- [Watch the video playlist on **YouTube**](https://www.youtube-nocookie.com/embed/videoseries?list=PLR26aYJQa09PleTolHJU9AXACUHWsdu6s)

### Streaming

- [Spotify](https://open.spotify.com/album/6laoaYjYzB9LDqx8sUe2zv)
- [Apple Music](https://music.apple.com/gb/album/after-1989-a-trip-to-freedom/1483027738)
- [YouTube Music](https://music.youtube.com/playlist?list=OLAK5uy_kRJwq0brD8ECaWdhsEx-9BrfEleYQjPlI)
- [Amazon Music](https://music.amazon.com/albums/B07Z8HH5XL?tag=featurefmuk-21)
- [Tidal](https://tidal.com/browse/album/119837352)

## Production

After completing the [demos]({{ site.url }}/blog/after-1989-demos/), my friend and music partner [Paolo Clementi](https://www.discogs.com/artist/2390759-Paolo-Clementi-2) left the project in mid 2017, a choice that prompted me to take some time off and focus on graduating as a master engineer at Berklee. I then spent most of 2018 working as a mix engineer and producer for clients in the UK and the US.

Alone, with a project I've been working on for a long time and the 30<sup>th</sup> anniversary of the fall of the Berlin Wall approaching, I pushed towards revising the concept. A new synopsis with a simpler set of songs was drafted, and a new group of collaborators put together.

The renewed project revolved around the same story but _changed the perspective_. No third-person narration, no theatrical persona. Since my grandfather and his traumatic experience in a concentration camp in Germany was the inspiration, _I became the narrator_. 

While researching through war archives in two nations, official letters and family tales, the quest to unfurl his story connected with my youth during the Cold War.

### Band line-up

To better convey the storyline, my first decision was to have songs instead of instrumentals. Since [Rachel Goodman](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCGztQW1g4fPy1Bz1nmiIpJw) couldn't be available for a full album, finding a lead singer was paramount. After meeting [Dan Ecclestone]({{ site.url }}/blog/premonition-and-ruin/) in Cambridge, we agreed on working together. I then involved [Gerald Duchene](https://sessions.antiquity-music.com) to help with guitars and saxophone, [Andy Bonnor](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC-eZGjyZv67Xn-qvBNOmfyA) on drums and [Callum Gardner](https://callumgardnerofficial.com/) on acoustic guitar and backing vocals.

A good amount of Paolo's contributions survived, including a few arrangements, two guitar solos and his beautiful viola.

### Tracklist

The songs followed a _liaison_ between my grandfather's escape from Berlin and me going back to the same place decades later, to see his prison in person. I wanted to represent the narration as a train trip to the concentration camp where each station, as announced by the tannoy system, was a different point in history.

The album shrunk from 16 pieces to 10 songs. By axing redundant intros and all the instrumentals that didn't fit the vision, the running time went from 50 minutes to 32.

### Workflow

In between the two stages of _After 1989_, I went back to Logic Pro. Importing all the tracks into Logic sessions allowed new arrangements to accommodate the lyrics I was writing. All in all, I had come up with a complete new demo in a relatively short time.

### Collaboration

While Dan and I were both in Cambridge and Callum lived in nearby London, any work with other collaborators happened remotely. As a Logic user himself, working with Gerald was straightforward. Everyone else had to render their tracks using the correct formats and hand them over. I basically applied the same process when I had to import my own audio and MIDI tracks from the Reason demos.

_After 1989_ was recorded in Italy, United Kingdom, United States, Finland and Germany.

### Mix and master

I employed a technique borrowed from Andrew Scheps: work on three songs at the same time. This way I could focus on the big picture, exchanging methods between different pieces as I moved along. I also dove into [Michael Brauer's multi-bus compression technique](https://brauerizing.wordpress.com/), which I already experimented with in previous productions.

Once the mix was complete, I engaged with renowned master engineer [Ian Shepherd](https://productionadvice.co.uk/about/), co-author of the famous _Loudness penalty_ website and organizer of Dynamic Range Day, who perfected it all.

### Release

Christopher Carvalho of [Unlock Your Sound](https://unlockyoursound.com), manager for _After 1989_, massively helped with the release campaign, including on social media and music submission websites. A proper word-of-mouth was key, especially with the selling of the [limited edition CD](https://minutestomidnight.bandcamp.com/album/after-1989-a-trip-to-freedom). I sold most copies by meeting with people and discussing the album.

## Reviews

> The project is very impressive both in conception and execution. I love the way you’ve chosen to tell the story, the visuals, and the juxtaposition of the two Berlin experiences. It definitely reminds me a bit of Pink Floyd—both in the scope of the concept album but also the blues-influence that runs through the music and informs the whole thing stylistically. It seems like the kind of project that might be embraced by that same fanbase.  
> Congratulations on creating a work that tackles an immense subject and brings a great deal of emotional depth and insight into it.
> <cite>[Eric Beall](https://online.berklee.edu/faculty/eric-beall), Berklee College of Music</cite>

> Minutes to Midnight’s album is magical and haunting, giving the listener a way to both experience and reconcile the horrors and joys of the past. A journey of choices and consequences, a path of emotional growth. It is at once rock opera, gothic melancholy, family legend, and historical account, all blending together to create an album unlike any other.
> <cite>[Rosa Nadine Sanchéz Xochimilco]({{ site.url }}/blog/after-1989-reviews/), Author</cite>

> The direct and immersive narrative allows history to speak for itself without being preachy or forced. The artist gives us a unique perspective of an outsider who manages to observe a great deal of pain without being directly subjected to it. Its themes are timely and human, and effortlessly connect with a modern audience. _After 1989_ is an immersive and interesting experiment in storytelling that will leave listeners meditating on its heavy themes.
> <cite>[IndieRepublik Berlin](https://indierepublik.com/music/music-reviews/review-minutes-to-midnight-after-1989-a-journey-of-choices-consequences/)</cite>

{: .cta }
[**Read all the reviews**&nbsp;&rarr;]({{ site.url }}/blog/after-1989-reviews/){: .notice-cta }

## Credits

Simone Silvestroni
: bass, piano, synth, strings, drums, sound effects

Paolo Clementi
: electric and acoustic guitars, viola

Dan Ecclestone
: vocals on all songs, ukulele and toy piano on _Little Boy_, metallophone and piano solo on _The Day Before_, piano on _Sachsenhausen_

Rachel Goodman
: vocals on _Skinny Kid_, _The Logic_

Gerald Duchene
: electric guitar on _Skinny Kid_, saxophone

Callum Gardner
: acoustic guitar on _Little Boy_, _The Day Before_, _Sachsenhausen_, backing vocals

Giuseppe Bianchi
: piano on _Requiem_

Michele Frumento
: drums on _The Logic_

Andy Bonnor (AndiA of ‘In Your Dreams’)
: drums on _13 Days_

Keven Howard Bellamy
: backing vocals on _Skinny Kid_

### Sound effects

Field recordings in Berlin between 2017 and 2019, and Cambridge in 2019 / Editing and historical samples restoration by Simone Silvestroni / All historical sound effects are in the public domain.

{: .list-hr }
- _Tannoy system of the S-Bahn 1 train_, Central Berlin to Oranienburg, on all songs except for _Sachsenhausen_.
- _BBC radio announcement_, April 1945.
- _Harry Truman TV speech_, August 1945.
- _John F. Kennedy TV speech_, December 1961.
- _East German soldier screaming during a military excercise_.
- _John F. Kennedy TV speech_, October 1962.
- _Adlai Stevenson, United Nations speech_, October 1962.
- _John F. Kennedy speech in West Berlin_, June 1963.
- _Dallas radio live report from Love Field airport_, 23 November 1963.
- _Dallas police_, 23 November 1963.
- _Robert F. Kennedy eulogy for Martin Luther King_, Indianapolis, April 1968.
- _Children in a playground_, Cambridge, 2019.
- _Berlin Wall Memorial_, 2017.
- _Birds and cars passing by_, Oranienburg, 2019.

### Production

Written by Simone Silvestroni / _13 Days_, _Unter Den Linden_, _Berlin 91_ arranged by Paolo Clementi / _Requiem_ arranged by Giuseppe Bianchi / Guitar solos by Paolo Clementi, except for _Skinny Kid_ by Gerald Duchene / Sax solos by Gerald Duchene / Piano solo in _The Day Before_ by Dan Ecclestone / Viola theme in _Berlin 91_ by Paolo Clementi / Recorded, produced and mixed by Simone Silvestroni / Mastered by [Ian Shepherd](https://productionadvice.co.uk/about/) / Management by Christopher Carvalho / &copy;&nbsp;2019 Simone Silvestroni. All rights reserved / ℗&nbsp;2019 Minutes to Midnight (sound recording copyright).

### Design

Sleeve design by Simone Silvestroni / CD photography (Berlin and Oranienburg, 2017-2019) and cover photo digital retouch by [Silvia Maggi](https://silviamaggidesign.com) / Cover photo by Dan Budnik: _An elderly woman, standing at the Berlin Wall, West sector, with hands raised, waiting to see her East Berlin friends and relatives_ (1961) / CD photo by [Adam Jones](https://www.flickr.com/people/adam_jones): _Prisoner's Uniform with Red Triangle of Political Enemy: Majdanek Concentration Camp, Lublin, Poland_.

### Thanks

I wish to thank my wife, my core family and close friends, all present and past performers and professionals involved, and Julie McCrae. Always grateful for the continuous support and help.