---
title: 'After 1989 Demos'
date: '2019-11-01 10:52:30'
last_modified_at: '2021-11-17 11:40:27'
tags: 
  - 'alternative rock'
  - 'arrangement'
  - 'bandcamp'
  - 'bass player'
  - 'bass'
  - 'bassist'
  - 'berlin'
  - 'berlin wall'
  - 'cambridge'
  - 'case study'
  - 'concept album'
  - 'concentration camp'
  - 'cold war'
  - 'composition'
  - 'independent music'
  - 'indie'
  - 'germany'
  - 'mix'
  - 'master'
  - 'music production'
  - 'music release'
  - 'original music'
  - 'personal'
  - 'reason'
  - 'sachsenhausen'
  - 'uk'
  - 'world war ii'
description: "A companion to the concept album ‘After 1989’, this is the rough and unpolished partial testimony of a different approach to production and the general workflow."
featimage: true
featimage-name: 'after-1989-demos.jpg'
featimage-alt: Cover for the album ‘After 1989 Demos’
featimage-width: 100%
featimage-height: 720
permalink: /work/music/after-1989-demos/
---
{% include pattern-bandcamp.html size="bc-album" iframecode='<iframe style="border: 0; width: 100%; height: 439px;" src="https://bandcamp.com/EmbeddedPlayer/album=2694261691/size=large/bgcol=ffffff/linkcol=333333/artwork=small/transparent=true/"><a href="https://minutestomidnight.bandcamp.com/album/after-1989-a-trip-to-freedom-original-demos-outtakes">After 1989: A Trip To Freedom (Original Demos &amp; Outtakes) by Minutes to Midnight</a></iframe>' %}

## Production

The previous incarnation of the [concept album]({{ site.url }}/work/music/after-1989/) was mostly instrumental, supported by a vast array of acoustic and digital strings and a convoluted almost-silent narration. A considerable amount of material had accumulated over the years, as the core idea shifted a few times. It all started with myself and [Paolo Clementi](https://www.discogs.com/artist/2142806-Paolo-Clementi), professional viola player, multi-instrumentalist and music teacher.

### Narration and theatrical idea

The basic idea revolved around a single character, who discovered how his grandfather spent years in a German concentration camp during WWII. While trying to retrace his fate, they fixate on the connection with the decades that followed: the _iron curtain_ and a frozen status quo that kept the world in a stasis.

The theatrical idea imagined a single actor alone in a large minimalistic room: a flat screen on the white wall playing mute movies from the Cold War. In-between each song, short monologues would help narrating the story.

After spending the whole night in this scenario, Mark makes tea when his New York apartment is suddenly shaken by something loud and rumbling. He rushes to the window: it's Tuesday, September 11, 2001.

### Songs

Only two songs had lyrics: _Niemandsland_ and _The Logic_. The latter became a manifesto of how I perceived the interconnection between public history and a family quest.

Trying to convey such a complex story through long instrumental pieces was naîve: outside of a theatrical set, it would have never stood a chance of being understood. Historical sound effects on their own were evocative but couldn't explain the feelings.

### Equipment

We recorded, arranged and produced 15 pieces of music. I had plenty of demo material. Several ideas came from old drafts, including a piano theme from my game audio years: it became _Nine Eleven_, later [morphed into the opening lead song _Skinny Kid_]({{ site.url }}/blog/skinny-kid-song-backstory/). 

After listening to the material, Paolo and I talked about structure and arrangements, recording violas, guitars and bass. This stage was done using Propellerheads' Reason 8.

I mostly relied on Reason's integrated rack: the SSL-based mixer with his familiar channel strip, the 1970s-sounding delay reminiscent of a _Roland Space Echo_, and a couple of reverbs. For the electric guitar we adopted a custom blend of Line-6 and Kuassa virtual amps. I re-amped those recordings during the final stage.

{% include pattern-figure.html image="/assets/images/reason-ssl.jpg" alt="Reason’s 8 SSL-based mixer" caption="Reason’s 8 SSL-based mixer" width="1024" height="629" %}

### Outtakes

Same as for several instrumental pieces, _Niemandsland_ was dropped from this release because I didn't write the music. The amazing performance by Rachel Goodman in the song was later [repurposed in _Skinny Kid_]({{ site.url }}/work/sound-design/vocal-editing/) as backing vocals. The two songs don't share much, therefore I had to put down hours of work in order to salvage her effort and make it fit a completely different set of chords at a faster tempo.

## Credits

### Performed by

**Simone Silvestroni**<br>
Bass, piano, synth, strings, drums, sound effects, vocals

**Paolo Clementi**<br>
Guitars, viola, strings

### Production

- Recorded and produced by Simone Silvestroni in Milan, London and Cambridge
- Cover photo by Dan Budnik: _An elderly woman, standing at the Berlin Wall, West sector, with hands raised, waiting to see her East Berlin friends and relatives (1961)_
- Cover photo digital retouch by [Silvia Maggi](https://silviamaggidesign.com)

{: .small }
&copy; 2017 Music and lyrics Simone Silvestroni. &copy; 2016 Music for _Unter Den Linden (Outtake Intro)_ Paolo Clementi. The copyright in this sound recording is owned by Minutes to Midnight. Minutes to Midnight is the exclusive trademark of Simone Silvestroni. All trademarks and logos are protected.

Released: 30 April 2020