---
title: '&lsquo;Berlin 91&rsquo; official music video'
date: '2021-08-13'
last_modified_at: '2021-11-08 15:08:32'
categories:
  - 'Video release'
tags:
  - berlin
  - berlin wall
  - germany
  - cold war
  - music video
description: "On the 60th anniversary of the building of the Berlin Wall, I’ve decided to release the last video from my album ‘After 1989’."
excerpt: "On the 60th anniversary of the building of the Berlin Wall, I’ve decided to release the last video from my album <em>After 1989</em>."
---
<p class="lead">{{ page.excerpt }}</p>

When I visited Berlin for the first time, shortly after the wall collapsed, it was also the first time I fell in love. I wandered through the no man’s land that was Potsdamer Platz at the time, holding my ruby-red hair girlfriend’s hand. I stood still, looking at the buildings on the east side, with their creepy bricked windows facing the west. The German Democratic Republic was history, and so was the Cold War.

{% include pattern-video.html id="N0Sa-1Vqn6g" title="Berlin 91 official music video" %}

On the 60th anniversary of the building of the Berlin Wall, I’ve decided to release the **last video from my album** [After 1989](/work/original-productions/after-1989/).

_Berlin 91_ is actually the first video I worked on, two years ago. In a suggestive room in Copenhagen, I spent a few hours editing footage shot by Derek Williams in 1990 (thanks Derek! — see credits below). The genuine approach, along with the fact his images perfectly reflected my memories of Berlin in those days, convinced me.

My work on the video surely is naive and unpolished, but shows a first approach. I wanted that to be raw, on purpose.

## Credits

### Performers

**Dan Ecclestone** / lead & backing vocals  
**Callum Gardner** / backing vocals  
**Paolo Clementi** / acoustic & electric guitars, viola  
**Simone Silvestroni** / bass, drums, synth, sound effects

### Production

**Music, lyrics, production** / Simone Silvestroni  
**Arrangement** / Paolo Clementi  
**Video editing** / Minutes to Midnight  
**Master** / [Ian Shepherd](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ian_Shepherd){:target="_blank" rel="noopener"}  
**Management** / Christopher Carvalho / [Unlock Your Sound](https://unlockyoursound.com/){:target="_blank" rel="noopener"} Ltd  

### Footage

<ul class="m2m-ul">
  <li><a href="https://www.nr23.net/" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">Derek Williams</a>, shot on location in 1990</li>
  <li><a href="https://silviamaggidesign.com/" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">Silvia Maggi</a>, shot on location (Berlin/Oranienburg) in 2019</li>
  <li>Group photo by Ornella Domenicali, Berlin 1991</li>
  <li>Ssgt. F. Lee Corkran</li>
  <li>Ralf Roletschek – Fahrradechnik technik auf fahrradmonteur.de</li>
  <li>Aerial view of Victory Column (Siegessäule) by Kordelianu Andrei</li>
  <li>Barbed wire design by freepik.com</li>
</ul>