---
title: 'De-brand'
date: '2023-03-01 21:34:20'
last_modified_at: '2023-03-02 10:55:58'
categories:
  - 'Personal' 
tags:
  - 'brand'
  - 'online presence'
  - 'mastodon'
  - 'marketing'
  - 'social media'
  - 'instagram'
author: Simone Silvestroni
description: 'Inspired by a brilliant debate on Mastodon, I outline the steps taken to remove the concept of personal brand from my online presence.'
---
Today, a post [by my online friend Ali](https://alirezahayati.com/) generated a lively exchange where all the participants agreed on one point: how we were all fooled by the idea of turning our online presence into a *brand*. 

I was surprised by the instinctive nature of this collective refusal, like a second nature kicking in as soon as the topic arises. Ali wrote:

> My personal blog is my personal blog. I write whatever I want and won't care if you think blogs should only be for one subject.

After liking his post, I replied:

> One of the greatest mistakes we've ever done was to fall into that trap that we should be promoting ourselves as "brands". You know, with all the 'create a persona' that would reflect your best work on social media and the rest of the crap. Fuck that.

## Brandifying my online life was a mistake

Can’t precisely recall when the faze started, though I vividly remember how during the production of my debut album I fell for this absolute bullshit of an idea. Can’t even assign blame to someone in particular because nobody convinced me, *I did it to myself*.

What makes my choice more baffling is that, even when the word *influencer* didn’t exist, I've always disliked the same type of public figure. Back then, it was people who were **projecting a successful persona**, obsessively focused on one thing. That thing, repeated to death, would become the key aspect making them recognisable and ultimately build their *brand*. A single-topic identity revolving around a job, their output on social media reflected the same push, consistency and reiteration.

Nevertheless, in late 2016 I took an online marketing course, started following certain people in the audio field, watched their online material and read their articles and books. I was establishing a new online presence centred around my music production skills and writing a debut album, so I fell for the same honey trap. Unfortunately, that also implied wasting a lot of time on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram.

I’d been into the one-person brand mantra for four long years. In the same Mastodon discussion, [Silvia](https://silviamaggidesign.com) added:

> It's something I now see as an Instagram thing.

Which makes perfect sense to me, because Instagram is arguably the peak of this deranged approach. To cut the story short, I quit mainstream social media in August 2020, [regaining sanity along the way](/blog/life-after-social-networks/). 

On its own, leaving the dumb circus of people who keep convincing themselves they’re *riding the algorithm* was cathartic. The choice was a revelation: I felt free from a shitload of ridiculous shenanigans that had no point other than having me playing someone else’s game.

## De-brandify

Words are crucial, therefore changing the lexicon was the first step. I stopped considering the web as a place where to find an *audience*. I quit using the word *users*, switching to *people* instead and rewrote my pages to reflect my true self.

Eradicating the marketing jargon was also paramount. I don’t produce *content*, I write and record sounds and sometimes lyrics. Songs, music, sound effects should evoke an emotional reaction and *content* doesn’t reflect any of that. The commodification of art has been overdone already, corporate conglomerates don’t need small actors to be part of it.

I refactored my website. In line with my long-time interest in [degrowth](/blog/degrowth/), I ditched Wordpress opting for a static site instead. The choice alone caused a shrink in size by almost 90%. Then, I removed the obligatory redundant huge headers featuring wasteful big images (*impactful*!). Stopped looking for the perfect *elevator pitch* because I gave up the idea that I should be selling something at all costs.

Since I don’t like being spied on, why whould I do the same to others? I deleted my Google Analytics account and wiped its code. I don’t pry on people who read my site, what’s even the point? To *ride the SEO*?

No comments on the site. I don’t need to show *engagement* to prove some point, I prefer private asynchronous communication. If people have their websites, they can use webmentions to reply and exchange opinions. Or even better: they can write plain old e-mails through the easy link at the footer of each post.

I wrote a short manifesto collecting some of my principles, calling it [Ethics](/ethics/).

A few years ago [I wrote a free ebook](/work/project-management/) and made it available on this website. As a stealth remnant of my *brandified* days, the download was still tied to a small form where people would give me their e-mail address and silently being added to the newsletter. All they wanted was to read a free ebook but I still subscribed to that model of *fishing users*. I removed the form and left a simple link, no strings attached.

Speaking of newsletter, mine is now in [full visual display through RSS](/newsletter.xml): no need for people to give me their email address if they don't want to.

The work isn’t done yet. I’m sure I still have bits here and there that I hadn’t noticed. Get in touch if you find one.

## Conclusions

I accept the fact that I'm never going to understand why I fell for this awful concept. But, as with every failure along the way, I prefer to focus on something positive. Building a more authentic self online and offline is an example and the very Mastodon debate that prompted this post is proof that it works.

Leaving the idea of a permanent fake perfect mask brought me closer to a genuinely caring — and openly prone to mistakes — real me.
