---
title: Mastodon
date: '2024-03-31 17:07:16'
last_modified_at: '2024-03-31 17:07:18'
tags:
  - 'personal'
  - 'social media'
description: 'I’ve been slowly withdrawing from the decentralised social network. While the reasons I told myself were all related to mental health, they’ve suddenly changed.'
---
No matter how I approach social media, at its core there is a simple truth: in the long term it gets to a point where I stop enjoying it. The fact is, I loved Mastodon when it seemed content with being a nieche. I found amazing people there, a few of which have now become friends.

When _broadcasters_ — the ones with a huge following and near zero reciprocity — started arriving, they brought a massive increase in posts about controversial topics, with no thoughts given to the use of content warnings. I've seen discussions tentatively kickstarted by clickbaits, and brilliant comments annihilating initial insipid posts. All of this was okay: without ever following the self-appointed influencers, I just built better filters, ignored the crap, and moved on.

Until something very different happened. The other day I checked my timeline, stumbling on a post by someone I've been following on the Fediverse for a long time. Even though we have rarely interacted, I've always enjoyed his takes on things. One of those persons with whom I feel a human connection without the need of becoming closer. He was complaining about a verbal aggression, describing the huge disappointment of having to face something like that on Mastodon.

A few hours after checking on him in private, I looked for the thread to see first-hand how it developed. The nasty pile-on of people united like an actual fascist mob, insulting someone who was simply trying to have a respectful debate, was awful to read. Unfortunately, the vicious attacks got to the point where Twitter-like death threats were dropped.

No level of controversy can justify this. It's always possible to disagree, even vehemently, while remaining civil. I thought I left cowards and keyboard warriors behind when I deleted my Twitter and Facebook accounts. Wrong.

My conclusion is simple: I think we solved the need of an online _social media_ long ago, when instant messengers and email allowed both quick and in-depth communication among people, whether one to one or in groups. Blogs and RSS feeds added even more. We didn’t need anything else.

Whether centralised or not, when social networks grow beyond a certain level they end up exposing the same flaws in human beings. I suppose this is the beginning of the end — unless I manage to strictly limit my involvement to musicians and a few friends, there is very little point in investing time there.