---
title: Bullies
date: '2024-09-07 12:27:49'
last_modified_at: '2024-09-07 12:27:53'
tags:
  - 'personal'
summary: "Reflecting on something that should have happened a lot to me, while it never did."
---
I've been reading several posts as of recently about awful experiences with bullies during school years, or even earlier. Once again, I'm confronted with the baffling fact that I have never had this in my life, even though I *should have*. Everything was perfectly aligned for me to be a perfect target. I was a quiet introverted, gentle, good at listening, sometimes good with advice. But I didn't really look masculine—on the contrary, I had a slender slightly androgynous figure—I hated competition, I didn't support any of the popular football teams, didn't participate to sports, didn't care about cars or motorcycles, and was addicted to reading.

Instead, what happened was that bullies *respected me*. I've never got to the end of this, and never will.

In middle school, at 12, there was a boy classmate who became everyone's punchbag. It was bewildering: he was the tallest, the strongest, and he even had a hint of a beard. Despite all that, one person kickstarted this habit of ridiculing and harassing this kind massive guy. That bully was a girl, two years senior to me. They had a history, predating our class, and for whatever reason she spread this idiotic story about him carrying ticks. Of course it was horseshit, nevertheless most of us believed it, only because she was an aggressive bully.

Have no idea why, but all the bullies and 'charismatic' boys and girls in my school years were the less studious, the less smart. All of them, invariably, have followed the same path in life: they stayed in the small town, repeating what little their parents had done decades earlier, and have become awful people. But I digress.

After months of bullying the sweet giant boy, the bully asked me if I wanted to become her boyfriend. With my typical roundabout way of answering awkward questions, I looked her in the eye, and said:

> No.

The rejection surprised the girl, slowly turning her constant arrogant attitude into something less noisy. I had never participated into bullying the classmate, however, I unfortunately stood there — silent and indifferent. I don't know why, but my crude and brutal rejection initiated some change. A year later, the sweet giant was free from harassment, now seen as our proud mascotte.

One day, I accepted a role in a 5-a-side summer football tournament. Scoring twice in the first five minutes of the debut match put me under an unnerving spotlight. I knew one of the guys in the other team, by reputation only. He lived in a *bad* neighbourhood, meaning a place where all the immigrants, from both the south of Italy and what was then known as Jugoslavia, lived. Within my small town, that group of council houses, built on purpose in the barren outskirts, was known with a brazen racist slur.

During the match, a fracas started between a group of opposing players. I stayed back with our goalkeeper, looking annoyed at the scene. For some reason, I heard some bullshit, and decided to join the fighting teenagers. I wanted to tell the referee what I saw, but the result was that the guy from the bad neighbourhood, exasperated by my teammates, jumped at us and gave me a slap in the face. Hard. He got a red card for that, but I didn't react. I stood there, frozen, watching him leave the field, head down, the public screaming at him. Bullied, relentlessly, only because his family came from Sicily, automatically considered lazy scroungers, and used as an easy target.

I always wanted to be ignored and left alone by both bullies and charismatic self-appointed thought leaders (where *thought* is a stretch here), and I achieved that. They either ignored me or nodded distantly, as if I was some sort of figure to be respected, or maybe feared. I don't know what type of image of myself I was projecting. I used to think that I could walk between raindrops, without getting wet. Maybe I've always carried a Unabomber vibe.