---
title: Good news
date: '2024-03-25 21:35:45'
last_modified_at: '2024-03-25 21:35:47'
tags:
  - 'music'
summary: 'It appears as if more people are realising how actively listening to music is something we should have never stopped doing.'
---
My friend Leigh of [SideSister](https://sidesister.bandcamp.com/) shared an article from _The Guardian_, titled [‘There’s endless choice, but you’re not listening’: fans quitting Spotify to save their love of music](https://www.theguardian.com/music/2022/sep/27/theres-endless-choice-but-youre-not-listening-fans-quitting-spotify-to-save-their-love-of-music). Might be a drop in the ocean, but I love that a few more people are making the conscious decision of leaving a commodified and passive way to experience music.

Whenever I say that I don't have an account on any of the streaming platforms, I usually get asked _how do I listen to music_ — almost like if streaming is the only way. The answer is easy: the same as it was in 1985. I have a library, a _personal_ one, which I can access from my devices. I might not have a record player anymore, and even if I still own a working Sony cassette deck, I might not have cassettes around. However, all the music that I bought throughout the years, together with my wife's, have been ripped to a digital format, carefully catalogued in a small portable SSD drive, and connected to our home network.

There's no corporation to tell us what to like, or define the right mood for the day. We do that ourselves. We decide on what to listen, and if it's not entire albums, maybe it's a playlist made earlier in our player — [Swinsian](http://swinsian.com) on macOS. Might even be a new one built on purpose for some occasion, a bit like a mixtape. It still feels like building a real connection.

> I like music because it’s a communal artistic practice, and anything that I can do that allows me to listen to music in a way that connects me with either the artists or my friends, that’s what I want to be involved with. Spotify and streaming in general just has absolutely no connection with that relationship at all.
> <cite>Jeff Tobias</cite>

{% include video.liquid id="IzQwbRdh5Ts" %}