---
title: Smaller
date: '2024-08-25 22:56:10'
last_modified_at: '2024-08-25 22:56:14'
tags:
  - 'indieweb'
  - 'personal'
  - 'social media'
summary: "As (para)social media keeps reducing its appeal on me, including the definition of 'Fediverse', I'm also finding the concept of indieweb, in its current techno-ideological form, uninteresting."
---
Brief reflection on how my interest in a codified *indie* web is waning at the speed of light. Two main reasons, neither of which are very original.

First, the Fediverse idea, albeit interesting on paper, is gloriously showing its main flaw: pretty much all their incarnations are mimicking social media, with all the consequent detrimental effects. Doom scrolling, an infinite series of short burst of personal opinions, usually disconnected from one another. Whether siloed or decentralised, the resulting unsearchable ephemerality is not really different from other mainstream corporate incarnations. Alex wrote much deeper considerations about this very topic, in their post [*The Fediverse and attention economy*](https://alexsirac.com/the-fediverse-and-attention-economy/).

Second, I completely lost interest in the Indieweb. I respect the project, and still prefer it to the current corporate web dystopia. However, my initial skepticism was right. Matthew Graybosch put it in words for me recently: we solved the interconnections between people on the internet years ago. RSS has this specific purpose, email serves the rest. All that time spent making this website compatible with webmentions should have been used communicating directly with people. The tools were *already there*.

I'm going to strip this site of all that cruft. No regrets.