---
title: Silence
date: '2024-08-31 13:47:02'
last_modified_at: '2024-08-31 13:47:06'
tags:
  - 'personal'
  - 'music'
summary: "Reflecting on the amount of time that I spent without writing new music."
---
Over the last few days, I cut a ton of code and content from this website. Removed webmentions, notes, the extra code that littered my templates and posts, and blogroll references to people that I never directly interact with. I follow many more RSS feeds, but I only promote writers that share a real connection with me.

I have a working system that I enjoy using. I don't upgrade Jekyll, my computer is running its last operating system, the whole architecture is stable, smooth, and works well. Third-party software dependencies are close to naught, and I like the style. I'm *content* with this beautiful brutalist efficient minimalism.

Removing cruft feels nice. Stability is good. However, three years after I released my last EP, where's my follow-up album? I have a ton of music drafts, with a few almost-complete songs. I just refused an offer to play bass with a local songwriter. Talking with a friend we have in common, I said:

> Beside logistics, I'm finding myself strangely detached from music. My bass track for Gerald was the first attempt in two years. Really weird. I was convinced that once I'd found a job, the music juice would start flowing again. Instead, I don't feel inspired. I'd love to record a new album but all my ideas and drafts are there, uninviting.

Turns out, removing the daily anxiety of having to find a job isn't a magic recipe to reigniting everything else.