---
title: Numb
date: '2024-10-26 15:32:18'
last_modified_at: '2024-10-26 15:32:20'
tags:
  - 'facts'
  - 'personal'
summary: "My friend Ali recently wrote a beautiful — and heartbreaking — post titled <em>Middle Easterners are numb</em>. We exchanged emails, as we do sometimes, discussing our mutual experience. A few days have passed, and now that Israel have started bombing Iran, my argumentation looks more hypocritical than before."
---
> As a Middle Easterner, you get used to certain things in the region, and one of them is war. We’re born with it and many have died with it. It’s been here for thousands of years but modern conflicts date back to 1902. It’s always been here.<br>
> I don’t have a memory of a single day without war in the region, nor does my father, nor did my grandpa. We’ve always had war and years of experiencing and getting used to it made us numb.
> <cite><a href="https://hyti.org/2024/10/09/middle-easterners-are-numb/">Ali Reza Hayati</a></cite>

From my email:

I'm so sorry about what's going on in the Middle East. Even though I'm on a news diet/embargo, that is probably the one topic that I keep following. Ironically, I've little to no idea about what is going on in the UK at the moment, except for practical things, and I'm especially oblivious to the US, and for a good part to the EU as well.

One thing about your post, from my experience. While true that my generation has never experienced war directly, I have known a peculiar type of numbness. Granted, I'm aware how other parts of the world have been subjected to real violence, actual war, indescribable pain. My side of the world lived the entirety of the post war decades in relative peace, however under a constant risk of being annihilated by a nuclear war. The fear was so tangible and at times so strong that we became completely numb to it. Basically, the entire 1980s, with its hedonism and individualism, were a reaction to that. Being a generation that's convinced it's going to be the last in the history of human civilisation played a few mind tricks.

My whole time growing up was clouded by that feeling. Which might sound disproportionate now, but back then was experienced as a certainty. I lived in a country with nuclear weapons, therefore a direct target. There was no escape. In May 1989 I went to Zürich for a week, for the wedding of my big cousin. I did know about Swiss houses having nuclear shelters by law, however at 18 I thought it might have been a myth — no internet back then for a quick fact-checking.

While staying with his in-laws, I was asked if I wanted to see *the underground bunker*. Of course I eagerly jumped at the occasion, descending a seemingly unending series of stairs in anticipation. At the bottom, in a pitch black only broken by a glimmering  weak torch, I saw the blast door. Opening the incredibly heavy 1.5 metres of reinforced steel revealed their safe haven beneath the villa.

I couldn't believe my eyes. I had been recently traumatised by having watched *Threads* and *The Day After*, and here I was, in a grey concrete caveau, filled to the brim with up to date tin food, water, powder milk, air conditioning equipment, bunk beds, the whole Cold War end-of-the-world paranoia paraphernalia.

Ironically, even though I've always wanted to own an underground nuclear bunker, I realised that day how futile that was. How completely bleak and hopeless. I became de facto numb to the risk, I kind of understood why the generation before mine had been spending a decade doing cocaine, alcohol, parties, minding their own business like no tomorrow. Once you see a real underground bunker, built to "survive" nuclear annihilation, it becomes clear how stupid we are. Humanity, that is.

And then, I see your part of the world still struggling today, almost in the same way as when I was a kid and then a teenager. I still remember how, while playing with my Lego as a child, voices from the TV in the background were talking about Sabra and Shatila, or the neverending Iran-Iraq war, with a constantly replayed footage of katyushas launching rockets.

I know that the numbness and the angst that I've experienced in my past are nothing compared to the real horror that the Middle East have been living in reality, however, I do understand a feeling of disconnection from a horrific situation — feared in my case, real in yours.

I'm sending hopeful thoughts your way.