---
title: Rain
date: '2024-10-01 23:20:37'
last_modified_at: '2024-10-01 23:20:40'
tags:
  - 'personal'
summary: "Do I always have to write a tldr? I live in Britain, I like to talk about the weather."
---
While all my favourite writers on the internet are pouring their thoughts on the [current debate about what a social web is](https://starbreaker.org/blog/tech/plain-old-web/), I deleted my Echofeed account, de facto quitting my sterile 'social media' broadcast routine. Instead, I'm enjoying the sound of heavy rain battering the roof.

There was this brief moment today at work. During my lunch break in the kitchen, sitting alone, eating a baguette with some Serrano ham. My idea of a perfect light just materialised, so I stopped for a few seconds and let the tap tap tap dripping on the skylight grow in my ears. Actually, the rain was intensifying, but it kind of created an harmony in my head.

Something that I value above everything in my new job, besides being quiet, is that we share these little moments together where we can discuss about everything. There's no animosity — passion, yes, arrogance and pretence, zero. It's like a protective bubble within our mid-size lovely English town, where things can be predictable or not, and yet I can savour the tranquillity of how it's managed.

Everyone seem to be liking what they do, there's no politics, no pantomime whatsoever. So, I forget about the constant drama in the tech world, I never pick up my phone except for calling my wife, or messaging a friend or a relative, and my office time runs with a pace that reminds me of the bygone era that predated mobile phones, before being online 24/7. Not that being online is bad *per se*, it's just that capitalism has gotten in the way and ruined everything.

So, in this tiny apolitical utopia, I listen to a lot of silence and tenuous keyboard clattering for roughly 8 hours each day, walking around the vaults where Robert Oppenheimer used to hang around in the old Cavendish laboratory. That's it, really.