_webdesign/unicredit.md, before:

---
title: 'UniCredit'
date: '2016-09-26'
last_modified_at: '2022-01-12 16:52:06'
year: "2016"
type: "web development"
skillset: 
 - php
 - sass
 - ssh
 - capistrano
 - git
description: "UniCredit Bank is a leading European commercial bank with an international network spanning 50 markets.."
excerpt: false
summary: 'The focus of the brief was to re-design UniCredit’s existing online acquisition landing pages for new customer acquisitions. We designed and developed a fully responsive site with <strong>custom experiences for smartphone, tablet and desktop</strong> to replace the existing desktop-only landing pages. Here is a brilliant <a href="https://silviamaggidesign.com/portfolio/acquisition-landing-pages-and-forms/">case study on the UX/design side</a> of the same project.'
toc: false
featimage: true
featimage-url: '/assets/images/unicredit.jpg'
featimage-height: '765'
permalink: '/work/web-design/unicredit/'
---
<h2 class="text-center text-uppercase">Client review</h2>
> UI Farm’s innovative workflow and unique skills has given us a very clear insight into our customers’ behaviour and preferences, which has considerably boosted our account application conversions. Thanks to UI Farm’s approach, we have been able to significantly improve the experience delivered to our customers and prospects, and make changes that may have seemed minor to us but have resulted in significant conversion lifts. UI Farm has truly changed our approach to Interaction Design.
> <cite>— Gabriele Rosati, [UX and interaction design manager at UniCredit](https://www.linkedin.com/in/rosati/){:target="_blank" rel="noopener"}</cite>

Commit message:

Refactored content for work pages

_webdesign/unicredit.md, after:

---
title: 'UniCredit'
date: '2016-09-26'
last_modified_at: '2022-01-12 16:52:06'
year: "2016"
type: "web development"
skillset: 
 - php
 - sass
 - ssh
 - capistrano
 - git
description: "UniCredit Bank is a leading European commercial bank with an international network spanning 50 markets. Designed with Sketch, built with PHP, SASS, Javascript and deployed with Capistrano."
excerpt: false
summary: 'The focus of the brief was to re-design UniCredit’s existing online acquisition landing pages for new customer acquisitions. We designed and developed a fully responsive site with <strong>custom experiences for smartphone, tablet and desktop</strong> to replace the existing desktop-only landing pages. Here is a brilliant <a href="https://silviamaggidesign.com/portfolio/acquisition-landing-pages-and-forms/">case study on the UX/design side</a> of the same project.'
toc: false
featimage: true
featimage-url: '/assets/images/unicredit.jpg'
featimage-height: '765'
permalink: '/work/web-design/unicredit/'
---
We used our custom SASS and Javascript-driven framework called <em>ResponsiFarm</em> to build PHP modules and add <strong>progressive enhancement</strong> functionality on top of our designer's vision. The landing pages converted leads connecting to UniCredit's acquisition forms.

<h2 class="text-center text-uppercase">Client review</h2>
> UI Farm’s innovative workflow and unique skills has given us a very clear insight into our customers’ behaviour and preferences, which has considerably boosted our account application conversions. Thanks to UI Farm’s approach, we have been able to significantly improve the experience delivered to our customers and prospects, and make changes that may have seemed minor to us but have resulted in significant conversion lifts. UI Farm has truly changed our approach to Interaction Design.
> <cite>— Gabriele Rosati, [UX and interaction design manager at UniCredit](https://www.linkedin.com/in/rosati/){:target="_blank" rel="noopener"}</cite>
